[Ragnar]
Previously on Vikings...
[Harald] I have to appoint
a new head of my bodyguard.
I wondered if you would
accept the position.
We should try
and settle this empty land.
[Ubbe] I suggest
that our next move
be to parcel up the land
between all of the families.
You can't have Bjorn anymore.
You can have me.
Ivar has joined forces
with my brother.
We have to prepare
for an attack.
The challenges are great,
but we must act.
Why did you want to be Queen?
Because I'm carrying
Bjorn's child.
It's our child.
How can you possibly
contemplate marrying
King Harald?
I have no advantages.
Come, quickly! Look!
The whale has washed up
on my property.
I thought we were
all in this together.
The gods decide.
The time of great heroes
is over, Bjorn.
Perhaps the Golden Age
of the Vikings is gone.
["If I Had A Heart" playing]
[tools clinking]
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
[grunting]
[sighs]
[Othere] I don't believe
Ketill will share.
[Ubbe] They must share,
otherwise some of us
will perish.
[Othere] He doesn't
care about that.
[Ubbe] Well, he must.
[Othere] You don't understand.
Ketill will kill anyone
on his path.
He claimed Iceland
by violence.
Killed the only family
who could challenge him.
And he'll do the same here.
Did he kill Floki?
Of course
he killed Floki.
Floki would have
been King of Iceland.
Everyone knew that,
and Ketill had to
deal with him.
[sighs]
Now, I don't know
where it happened.
And I have no proof.
But I know
Ketill killed Floki
one way or another.
What to do?
Just be prepared.
[woman 1] We need
the heavy ones!
[woman 2] Come on!
[indistinct chatter]
[footsteps approaching]
[whispers] Ivar.
-[Ivar gasps]
-[laughs]
[Ivar chuckles]
It's time to go.
-Come on.
-Ow!
-[sighing] Yes.
[chuckles]
[speaks in native tongue]
[drum beating]
[drumming continues]
[indistinct chatter]
[Erik] Wonder what he would
think if he knew he was
marrying a witch.
He knows.
[clicks tongue] He knows.
Yes, and he doesn't care.
So you have no power
over me, Erik.
You can't reveal
anything to Harald.
You can't shame me.
And you can't sell me
into slavery.
-What?
-You heard.
It was always
your profession of choice.
Everybody sells slave.
You don't know
anything about me.
I know this.
You sold me once.
You don't remember?
Of course you don't.
But I remember.
How could I forget?
What do you want me to say?
Nothing.
Now leave.
I'm making my wedding dress.
[sighs]
Can you see the future?
-[all yelling]
-We need food!
My son is starving!
[man] Get out of here!
You can't have it!
What do you want?
A fair share!
You'll get your share.
-Not from you!
-We've come to take it.
If you step foot on my land,
you will have made
your own death!
Listen to him, he means it!
Go away!
Go back! Please!
[indistinct yelling]
[woman] We need food!
If anyone steps foot
on my land, they will die!
What is the point
in this, Ketill, huh?
The whale washed ashore
on my land!
You have to share it!
[Ketill] It is a gift
from the gods!
It... It was sent to me.
What else can it mean?
Have you lost your mind, hmm?
The god have chosen me.
You don't care if everyone
else here just dies.
I am King here!
I will decide who starves.
You won't, you murderer!
[all yelling and clamoring]
[grunting]
-[grunting]
-[man screaming]
So, they butcher
themselves over the body
of our Lord!
[Ubbe] No!
[shouting in native tongue]
[yelling]
-[stabbing]
-[grunting]
My son!
[speaking in native tongue]
[woman screaming]
[yelling]
-[bone breaking]
-[grunting]
Come! Ubbe! Away!
-[panting]
-[Ingvild wailing] Frodi!
Torvi!
-[grunting]
-[body thuds]
-Go!
-[panting]
[woman yells]
To the boats!
-[viking] Hurry!
-Go! Go!
-[Torvi] You're wounded.
-No, it's nothing.
[grunting]
[Ingvild crying] Frodi!
Come back!
-[Ingvild wailing]
-[Ketill panting]
[men yelling]
[Ubbe] Move! Get on the boat!
[baby crying]
-[women crying]
-[Ubbe] Move!
Where are you going?
-Get on the boat!
-No, I can't.
[clamoring]
[gasping]
[man coughing]
We have no food,
no water, nothing!
Don't be afraid!
All shall be well!
Row! Row!
[Torvi] What are we
going to do?
All shall be well,
and all manner of things
shall be well.
[baby crying]
Look at me. [chuckles]
I am King of Greenland.
Rejoice! Rejoice!
[chuckles]
Rejoice.
[Ingvild crying]
[Ketill panting]
[horse whinnies]
[horses approaching]
[in native tongue]
[rider urges horse]
[horses receding]
[chittering]
Congratulations
on your promotion.
Thank you.
[chittering continues]
We could still be lovers.
What?
After the marriage.
Why not?
Harald trusts me now.
I saved his life.
And the first thing
you want to do is betray him?
[chittering continues]
You don't love him.
[chittering]
[wings fluttering]
[sighs]
[rider yelling]
It's a trap.
[chuckles softly]
I'm telling you, it's a trap.
[wood creaks]
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
I told you.
[horse whinnies]
Who's that?
Prince Dir,
the army of Kiev
salutes you,
and offers you,
and Prince Igor,
our profound love and loyalty
from this day forward.
By the grace of God.
Thank you.
By the grace of God. Amen.
[people cheering]
[chuckles]
[cheering continues]
[speaks in native tongue]
They came to a place
called Golgotha,
which means,
"the place of the skull."
There, they offered
Jesus wine to drink,
mixed with gall.
But after tasting it,
He refused to drink.
When they had crucified Him...
they divided up
His clothes by lot.
[breathing heavily]
Above His head,
they placed the written
charge against Him.
"This is Jesus,
the King of the Jews."
Those who passed by
hurled insults at Him,
shaking their heads
and saying,
"Come down from the cross
if you are the Son of God."
In the same way,
the chief priests
and the elders mocked Him.
"He saved others," they said,
"but He can't save himself.
He's the King of Israel.
Let Him come down
from the cross...
and we'll believe Him."
[gasps]
He trusts in God.
Let God rescue Him now
if He wants Him,
for He said,
"I am the Son of God."
[church bell tolling]
-[people cheering]
-[church bell tolling]
-[indistinct chatter]
-[tolling continues]
-My brothers.
-[chatter dies down]
Let us all
live in peace together.
Let us live as God intended.
Let us talk
and forever put
our differences aside.
[breathing heavily]
[sniffles] Igor,
I love you like a son.
And you, Ivar,
like a brother.
[Dir] Don't believe him.
He doesn't believe in love.
It's a joke, he's lying.
For God's sake,
for the love of God...
for everything
that is holy,
let us live in peace
and love, please.
My brothers...
God sees into our hearts.
Let us love one another.
It's all I ask.
Oh, my brother in Christ,
it is all I ask.
Nothing more.
Take this bow and arrow
and kill your uncle.
-God commanded...
-Don't be a cripple anymore.
...to forgive one another.
I don't know.
Perhaps, in his own way,
he does love me.
If we don't kill him,
you will never be free.
I love you, you know that.
Let me help you.
[Oleg] I offer myself
up for you.
-No, no, wait.
-[crowd gasps]
Let me kill him.
Let me do it.
No, Igor.
Not you!
No!
I'm sorry.
-[arrow stabbing]
-[crowd gasps]
[gasps]
[groans]
[breathing heavily]
[gasping]
Father, forgive them...
for they know not
what they do.
[body thuds]
[indistinct shouting]
[indistinct chatter]
[speaking in native tongue]
[drums beating]
[drumming stops]
[exhales deeply]
[drumming]
[drumming stops]
You came.
I want to wish you and Ingrid
every happiness.
Then you're not joining us
in matrimony?
No.
I cannot marry you.
I don't understand.
In my heart,
I am still married to Bjorn.
Now I have to go.
Where are you going?
To my love.
-Gunnhild.
-Leave her alone.
Let her be.
I go now to join Bjorn...
in Valhalla.
In Valhalla.
[waves splashing]
[Torvi] So we survived,
which is the main thing.
But where are we going?
[Ubbe] At the moment,
wherever the wind and
the tides take us.
We have no idea where we are.
And we have no sunstone.
And we have no food.
[Ubbe] We will find food.
But we have no water.
If we have no water,
we will be dead anyway.
[Othere] God will provide.
I wished I believed
in your God.
Where did you learn
to fight like that.
What?
You're a priest.
You went to the seminary,
you became a missionary.
That's what you said.
And who taught you
to use weapons like that?
Where did you learn
to fight like a warrior?
I sailed to Byzantium.
I was taught by some
of the greatest fighters
in the world.
Where is Byzantium?
It's where the Emperor sits.
Why would they
teach you to fight?
So I could serve in his
personal bodyguard, of course.
He always chose Vikings
to serve in his bodyguard.
You told us you were
a Saxon monk.
No, I told you the real
Othere was a Saxon monk.
I took his identity.
And I took his faith.
You have lied and lied
and lied, my friend Othere.
[Othere] I have only
spoken the truth.
Nobody likes the truth.
They hear only what
they want to hear.
The truth is that we are
probably going to die.
Is that my fault?
No.
No, it's mine.
I believe your stories.
Look.
[grunts]
I don't believe it.
Sometimes you have to believe.
[indistinct murmuring]
-[Othere chuckles]
-Catch it!
Catch the rain!
[grunts]
[indistinct chatter]
[all laughing]
[sighs] And it falleth like
the gentle rain from heaven.
[laughing]
Oh!
[indistinct chatter]
[indistinct shouting]
[Dir] It's Igor.
[laughter]
So, what are your
plans now, Ivar?
I don't know.
Depends.
On what?
On you.
You know that.
But I am here now,
back with my family.
[snickers]
So, they matter
more than I do.
I am sorry.
[snickers]
Don't worry.
I have other ambitions.
To do?
Some unfinished business.
Don't worry about me.
Hmm?
Then I'm happy
if you won't blame me.
How would I ever blame you?
[sighs]
Because I'm carrying
your child.
-[music stops]
-[all cheering]
[Dir] Listen, people.
People! Listen.
We have overthrown a tyrant
whose only ambition was
to make himself the king
of the Rus.
Oleg was my brother.
But even so,
I could not allow that
to happen to my country!
Nor could I allow that
to happen to my young
nephew Igor,
-the true heir to this land!
-[all cheering]
But none of this could
have been possible
without the intervention of
our two Viking brothers.
[people clamoring]
We salute you all.
-Skol!
-[all] Skol!
[music playing]
[indistinct shouting]
[men singing in native tongue]
[priest speaking
in native tongue]
[softly] Do you want to
stay here in Kiev?
Do you?
Oh, no.
Katia is carrying my child.
-Your child?
-Yes.
My child.
But I know she doesn't
want me to stay.
[Hvitserk exhales]
So, are you coming with me?
Where to?
[singing continues]
Well, we don't know
what happened there
since Bjorn died.
Well, then we'll find out.
[singing continues]
Why do you hesitate?
-Why do you even ask?
-[snickers]
You know we're fated
to stay together.
Since either you
will kill me or I you.
Hmm.
[sighs] Hmm.
May God bless you
and keep you this day
and all the days of
your life, my friend.
Farewell then, Ivar.
I promise that our child
will be blessed
and will want for nothing.
And I will make sure
he knows
that his father is
Ivar, the Boneless.
A king
and a great man.
You tell me you love me, Ivar,
but you don't.
You loved your wife Freydis.
And in your mind
you confuse me with her.
But I am not her,
and I will only disappoint you
when you realize it.
That is why
you have to go.
[Ivar grunts]
[grunts]
[horse grunts]
[man shouting
in native tongue]
Ivar!
[Igor] Ivar!
[both laughing]
They told me
you were leaving.
You can't.
I... I won't allow it.
I own all the land. I own
the sky and the clouds.
But you do not own me.
So it's true.
You are leaving.
You are not
a child anymore.
Only a man can be king.
And a man must
put aside childish things
and he must learn how to
stand on his own feet.
[chuckles]
Everyone here loves you.
I wouldn't go if I didn't
think you were safe.
You're safe.
And you will be king.
[snickers]
Let's go.
You've changed.
[scoffs]
We never really change,
we just think that we do.
Nah, you've changed.
[music playing]